# [Kaggle PLAsTiCC Astronomical Classification Competition](https://www.kaggle.com/c/PLAsTiCC-2018)
 The tasks is to classify astronomical sources which brightness vary with time into 15 different classes, scaling from a small training set (~8000 objects) to a very large test set (~1.5 million objects). The data presented measurement of object brightness during some period of time in six filters, plus some meta information of object, like distance to the object, angle coordinate etc. Submissions are evaluated using a weighted multi-class logarithmic loss. The overall effect is such that each class is roughly equally important for the final score. More background information is available in this [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.00001).The time series isn't evenly sampled and even measurement from different filters can't be obtained simultaneously. Also due to the nature of a data same objects looks different on different distance. With increase of distance the objects become dimmer and their spectrum shifted to longer wavelength, so called redshift. So the features based on absolute values are inconsistent without correction on redshift. Besides that train and test sets are pretty different the test set contain more of a distant objects. Thus the important part of solution was feature engineering. I created features based on various ratios, peaks characteristic, like their widths, rates of rise and decay, the periods of peaks if it have periodic structure. I checked that distributions of features on train and test set were similar. I trained and tuned several LightGBM and XGBoost models using 5 fold cross validation saving out of fold prediction, then I stacked them using LightGBM model. With this solution I got the score bellow.

|public score|private score|final rank| 
|---|---|---|
|0.8913|0.9087| 32th (*top3%*)|

